High in this video we're going to look at some applications of closures.
And in this particular video I really want to show you how very often what you might write as a class
can actually be written as a closure instead.
So let's look at a very simple example which is going to be an average year we want something that will
allow us to feed numbers over time and it will just give us what the current averages of all the numbers
were fed through.
So far so obviously a very simple approach might be to just simply store those numbers as we receive
them and they calculate the average every time it's requested.
So you might think of doing this using a class.
And let's see how we might do that.
So let's go ahead and create a class let's call it average.
And what does it do.
Well we're going to need an initialization initializer or initialization and all we're going to do here
is we're going to create an empty list numbers.
So that's going to be an instance variable numbers then we're going to define this add function or this
add method and the add method is going to require the number that we want to add to our list.
So would then would say self-taught numbers got append numbers right.
We've just added.
And instead of creating Now another method to return the average.
I'm just going to return the average So every time we add will get the new average back.
So keep on going then.
Well first I have to calculate the total.
So let's do it this way.
Total I don't have to separate it up but I'll do this just to keep it simple.
So totally calls the sum soft of numbers and the count which is the number of items is just the length
of numbers.
And then we're going to return total divided by count.
So that's our class.
Pretty straightforward.
It has one instance property numbers and has one instance method and which appends the number to the
list and then calculates the average and then returns it.
But you'll notice that every time we add a number we have to recalculate the total and the count.
That's not very efficient.
So we'll see later on how to make that a little more efficient.
For now let's see how this would work.
For all we could say a Gore's average for and now we have a new average of function and you average
an object right.
An instance of the average a class and now we can call.
And so let's say we add 10 while our current average is 10 and 20.
Our current average now is 15 and we can add 30 and our current average is 20.
OK.
So that works as expected cost.
We can create as many averages as we want.
So we can say beat up and 10 and no lower so we get a value of 10.
Yeah because this B and those are not the same right.
They are different instances of the same class.
I'm just pointing that out because it's very similar to what we're going to see now when we rewrite
this using a closure instead.
So instead of having this class and kind of the overhead involved with having objects and initializers
and so on and having the self We're going to write it will simply go ahead and create a function called
averages.
And this one is going to have a local variable called numbers and it will just be an empty list to start
off with.
Then we're going to create our closures.
So now we define this in a function add and add needs to take in a number because we want to be able
to pass in that number.
And what is it going to do it's going to say numbers that appendix number.
So this is no different than what we were doing in the class.
We're just appending the number to the list.
The only thing is that this numbers here is a non-local variable there's no assignment to it.
So add has a free variable numbers and it has a local variable called numbers but numbers is the free
variable.
So now what do we need to do.
Well we need to do exactly what we did over here.
So let's go ahead and do this.
The only thing is we don't have self anymore and that will work just as before.
The only difference that we have to return the closure.
Don't forget to return the closures.
OK so now we have that we can say both averages right and we're going to say a 10.
Right.
We don't have to call and we don't have to say.
And because remember what is a it is and it's the closer.
Right.
So a is 10.
And if we do a 20 we get 15 a 30 we get 20 back just as before.
And of course if we create another we call average or Again we're creating another closure a different
one.
And if we called the turn well we get 10 back.
As you can see the average the numbers list is not the same between a and b.
In fact you can look at it this way.
Right.
Here's the cell that a uses for its closure right for its free variable numbers.
And here's the cell used by B.
It's free variable.
You can see different memory addresses not the same thing.
It's not shared just as we had you know a and b with two separate distinct objects both instances of
the average a class but separate objects.
We've got the same thing here.
They both if you want to think about instances of that closure but they're separate causes not the same.
Ok so now let's see how we can fix this up a little bit.
Let me copy and paste the code down here so we can see it better.
So every time we're calling the sum right we're appending the number to the numbers and then we're calling
the sum but what is the new total.
It's the previous total plus the new number and the count is the previous count plus 1.
So instead of actually storing numbers all the time let's not do that let's just stole the running total
and the running count and then every time we add a number we'll add the number to that running total.
Add 1 to the count and then we can recalculate the average much simpler.
And we don't have the overhead of storing those numbers and calculating the sum and length of time.
So how would we do that.
Very simple we would say total equals zero and count equals zero.
Right.
So now we don't have that anymore.
When you leave it in for a second we have total equals total plus numbers and count equals count plus
1 K and then we return total divided by Count calls.
Hopefully you've seen that there's an issue here.
We have an assignment to total.
So total is a local variable and that's not what we want we want the total to be kept around every time
we call and write we want to retain its value.
So we need to make total non-locally and the same thing with color.
We need to make count local rights.
We want that total and account to still be around when average or has finished running.
And when ad has finished running because the next time we call ad right the next time we call that closer
we want to remember what its previous total and count were hence why we're putting total and count in
the average abody But then we reference it inside the function the function.
And so we have our closure.
OK now let's go ahead and create an instance of that closure.
So a again is just a closure right.
So it's this function.
But now you'll notice it has two cells that it's working with.
Yeah that's because it's working with two free variables that count and total time at these memory addresses.
So now we can call a 10 10 20 people get 15 a 40.
We had 20 back right.
Same as before.
No difference.
And of course if we create another instance of the closure we'll start a new running average or as well.
So in general you can always do that right.
We could have written this as a class as well.
Very quickly let's take the original class that we had.
Right.
We could have written it this way.
So that means sort of up here.
And instead of storing numbers we could say self-taught total equals zero self-dual count equals zero.
And here of course we don't do that.
We just say total equals self dupped total plus number.
And then of course this is self-taught total.
So let me I don't want to keep rewriting self all the time so I'll use the plus equals but remember
that's kind of what it's doing anyways and counts plus equals one time and again self that counts.
And then we're going to return self-help total provided by cell count.
So this these two things kind of do the same thing right.
This uses a class to store total and count in class in it or in instance properties.
Right.
And then the ad method uses the instance variables total and count instance properties to calculate
and return the average.
Right.
So it adds the numbers calculates the average and then we call it again.
So we've done the same thing one using a class.
The other one using a closure.
So pick whichever one you prefer.
But very often writing things as a closure is sometimes easier and has less overhead than using a class
but it's up to you how you want to do it how sick a look at another example which also shows you that
you can take a class and rewrite it as a closure.
And in this case I really just want something very simple that's going to time that's going allow me
to time to count the number of elapsed seconds.
Right so and we know that we can do that using the pouffe counter.
We've seen that before.
That's in the time library.
So from time import of count a import per counter function I want to call it not yet.
So now we can call perf counters and post kind of return some value.
Don't worry about what that value is.
It's kind of meaningless for all purposes we just want to know the difference between two consecutive
calls to Polk County and that will give us the elapsed time between the two calls so we look at 2095
minus 1:32 we are forgetting the decimal dust.
So here we had approximately what 13 seconds elapsed between me typing this and running it and me running
this one here.
So that's what we're going use of counterfoil.
So let's start with maybe a class let's call it time and we're going to define this function and it
doesn't take any parameters but it's going to stall the start value so it's going to start basically
whenever we first instantiate timer.
So when you create the class and you create the instance of the class we're going to immediately take
what is the perf count of value and then maybe I'll call that Paul Fanaa I'll change that in a few minutes
and show you why.
So poll self it doesn't actually take any parameters.
And what is it going to do.
All it's going to do.
It's going to return the current count of value minus self-trust but that's all it does.
Right.
So basically now I can say t because timer let's call it T-1 equals timers.
OK.
And now I can call one doc poll right.
T-1 is the object the instance of timer.
It has a poll that's already been counting.
Right.
Because as soon as I created T-1 it Rand Paul can.
Now I look and 15 seconds have elapsed.
So that's how long I talked between start between running this and calling us.
So now we can again call it again our T-2 81 call it again and don't poll.
And now we get 32 spoke another 15 seconds.
Now we can change this into a closure.
But before I do I just want to show you something that's interesting you notice how I have to say one
dot Paul I'm going to call this thing but really every time there's only a single function I'm interested
in.
And so what I'm going to do I'm going to change this to a special name Dunder call.
What this does oldest does it basically says to Python hey the object that you get back after you've
created the class is not a callable.
And when you call it just call this method over here that's all it does.
So now I can say what he time just as before.
But there is no pool anymore.
So now instead of calling the poll method like I had before right there is no pull method anymore.
I am just going to call the object and it returns the elapsed time between when I created this and when
I call this and I can call it again and we get that.
So this is nothing really a very fancy.
It just says that the instance that gets created from this class is callable.
And when it gets called right by putting these parentheses in it's going to call this method over here
and we'll see that in more detail when we get to object our programming later on in the course.
OK.
So this really has nothing to do with creating the closure I just wanted to show you that because sometimes
it's useful and make your code a little cleaner.
OK.
So let's now go ahead and create a closure that would do the equivalent thing.
So we're going to create a function.
Def timers.
And here I just need to store the stocks and I need to store what is the start value of this Paul Callan.
And then inside I'll call it pool.
Doesn't really matter since we'll never refer to it by name but he here's the pool and what is that
pool function going to do.
It's going to return the current value of perf counters minus stuffed and then we have to of course
return of color and that's it.
So these two things will do the equivalent work.
So now we can call we can say T-2 equals timer's.
Okay.
So nagger T2 and I can call T-2 and I get that when I can Coletti to again and I get it.
And that's why I wanted to call this undone the call because the way you call this and the way you call
this is identical.
You'll notice there's no difference.
I can say T1 and T2 right.
But T-1 is using Reclast class teacher is using the closure so in general you'll find that when you
have classes that are pretty straightforward there's only one call you're interested in.
And you know even if you have more than one value being stalled as we saw over the count in total you
can rewrite it as a closure.
And oftentimes the code will be simpler.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next few.